In this lecture,
we are gonna be building the overall layout
of our website.
And so, in this lecture,
you're gonna learn how to build a complex and modern layout
using advanced CSS Grid techniques.
And so, what this means is
that you now will actually apply the concepts
that you learned in our last section
to a real-world project,
and you're gonna learn how to choose different row
and column track sizes for different types of content
in a real-world context.
So this is actually gonna be a rather complex lecture,
and so, let's get started.
And we start by analyzing the overall layout
that we want to build.
So the first thing that you notice right away
is this sidebar here on the left side,
which goes all the way from the top of the page
to the beginning, so all the way until down there,
so that is the first part of the layout.
Then, we have this part here, which is the header,
and then, here on the right side,
the top three realtors that work for the Nexter company.
Okay?
So this is another part of the layout.
Then, down here, we have this features here
of the company, so basically describing
how the company works, and so,
that is another part of the layout.
Then, coming down here,
we have this testimonial section here
with this part on the left side,
and then, this part on the right side.
And so, this basically is like a testimonial
of some people who found their perfect home,
and so, I call this one here a story.
And so, this here is one part of the layout,
which is like the gallery, like the pictures,
and then, this here is the content of the story,
on the right side.
You see that they have this different background,
of course, and so, we can treat them as two parts
of the layout.
Then, down here, we have the next section of the page,
and that's these homes,
so different homes that we can buy at this company.
Then, next up, we have this section here,
which is a typical application of Grid,
which is this gallery,
and then, finally, the footer.
All right?
So we have a total of eight parts in our layout.
So the first one here, the side part,
and with the footer, two, three, four,
and then, we can treat this here as one,
so five, six, seven,
and then, here, on the side,
number eight.
So let's now go to a markup
and put all of them in there.
So this is our HTML, and you see
that I already put the container class here
on the body tag, and so, that is going
to be our Grid container, and all of these parts
of the layout that we just saw are then the Grid items,
which we're then gonna place on the Grid,
so let's start with the sidebar.
So we're using a div for that.
For now, I'm just gonna put the name of each part
of each module, let's say, in here.
So the sidebar, then the header,
and let's use the header HTML5 element
with the class header, and, of course,
rewrite header in here.
Then, we have a div with the realtors.
Okay, so top three realtors.
Then, we have the features section,
so I may actually call this a section,
so section features.
All right.
Then, next up, we have the story, remember?
So let me show that to you again.
So the story is basically these two things.
Now, in order for these to be Grid items,
each of the sides has to be a different element, right?
And so, we say that these two are part of a story,
but this left side here is the pictures,
and this right side here is the content,
and so, each of these will be a different Grid item.
Okay?
And so, let's use a div for that, and then, story,
so that is like the blog,
and then, we use the element pictures, okay?
And it's perfectly legal to do it like this,
so it's no problem having to block anti-element
without having a parent blog.
So we know that these two are part of the story blog,
but there's not really an element for that,
because we want both of these elements to be Grid items.
Okay?
Does that make sense?
So we have the story pictures and the story content,
so story content and story pictures.
Next up, we have then a section with the homes.
Then, we have the gallery,
so section gallery,
and then, finally, the footer.
Okay, and so, that's our markup structure.
Let's take a look at that if it's already
in our HTML or in our page, actually, and so, yeah.
So here we go.
That is the content of our page for now.
Let's now go ahead and actually give each
of them here a background color
so that we can better see what's actually going on here.
So remember that if you already have a file for each
of them here in the Sass folder,
and so, let's open up each of them one-by-one.
Okay, so sidebar, background color,
and I'm actually gonna use the primary color
for this one, because that will be the final color,
actually, so color, primary.
Let's take a look if that works already,
and, yeah, so that's our primary color.
Next up, we have the header.
And so, let's use another color here
from our variables here, so let's use this gray color,
right?
So we're gonna change most of this later,
but that's just so we can see what's going on.
Next is the realtors,
and so, realtors,
background color,
and, here, I actually used the definitive color,
so this is color secondary, and it is this dark blue, right?
So let's see.
And it's actually not really there,
so this is here, the dark blue color that I mean, okay?
So let's see what's going on here.
Yeah, it's just a small typo over here,
so let's save and close.
Now, it should be there, and, of course, it is.
So, now, the features, and let's use, for example,
this color here as the background color in here,
so features.
Save it and close it.
Next up, we have the story.
So the story is the name of the blog, remember that,
but we actually don't even have an element called story,
but what we do have is an element called story pictures
and one called story content, right?
And so, we're gonna build these selectors,
like we've been doing throughout all the other projects
in the course, so using this Sass way.
So the and, and then, underscore, underscore, pictures,
and this, of course, will translate into story pictures.
So let's use color primary here again,
and, again, this doesn't really matter at this point.
It's just so that we can see the boxes a bit better, okay?
Now, in this case, let's actually use the real color,
which will be this one here,
so with this light gray,
close it, let's check it out, and yeah.
So you see that all of the colors are here, and so,
now, next up is the homes, so homes.
So let's use the blue color again.
And, actually, the same for the footer,
so let's just copy this code here for the footer,
because that's actually also the definitive final color,
and then, for the gallery,
the background color, let's, again, use this one.
Give it a save and close,
and this one, we can close, as well,
and so, let's check it out.
And so, yep, each of them now has
their own background color.
Okay, and so, let's now actually start with the Grid part
of building this layout.
So that's the most exciting part, right?
So remember that this element here had this container class,
so this body element, and this body element is
what actually will be our overall Grid container, right?
And so, I gave it a class container so
that we can now style it.
I could've done it directly in the body here, of course,
but I think it's a bit more cleaner
to actually use this container class.
So it is a great container, and so, we start
by saying display Grid,
so nothing new here at this point.
And so, let's now start with the rows,
so Grid, template rows, and so, let's take a look now
at our final design again.
So let's check out how many rows we actually want,
so the first row is this one here, right?
And let me show you that the height
of this row here is actually a percentage
of the viewport height, okay?
So if I decreased this here, then you will see
that the height of the container adapts as well, right?
And so, the size of this row here is in viewport hide units,
so let's actually go over there and define that already.
So the first row check should have a height
of 80 viewport heights.
Okay, so, right now, we have an explicit Grid
with only one row, right?
And all the other items that will be added
in the implicit Grid, so the items
that don't have any space here in this one by one Grid.
Okay, so, right now, we only defined one row.
So let's take a look at that, and yeah.
So that's the first one.
Right now, it says here that it's the sidebar,
but, of course, we're gonna change that in a second.
What matters here is that the first row
now has this 80 viewport.
Let's actually decrease that, and so,
you can see that it's actually working.
Actually, let's go back here and take a look
at the second row, so the second row is this one here,
so all of this, and so, this one will contain this part
of the features.
Now, how do we want this row here to be sized?
Well, actually, we simply wanted
to contain here this content,
and if we increase this content, we, of course,
want this row here to grow with it,
so let's say that the content grows like this,
and it's a bit larger now, and so, of course,
we want the row to grow with it, right?
So how do we do that?
Well, we actually already did it in one
of the intro lectures, and so, what we can see here is
that we wanted to have the min content.
Okay?
Now, we could also put auto here, like this,
and auto is actually the default
if you do not specify anything, so auto, basically,
also means that it adapts to the content, okay?
And, in this case, it really is the same,
so we can write min content or auto here.
It really doesn't matter, because, either way,
it's gonna mean that there will be enough space
to fit all the content, okay?
So min content, and that's not gonna change anything here,
so it just looks the same, because, right now,
the content is just this text in the second row, okay?
So let's go over to the third row,
and this row here is actually not a function
of the viewport height, but the viewport width,
so let me show that to you again,
and you see that, as we decrease the viewport width,
the size of these boxes decrease, so of this row here,
is increasing and decreasing, and so, basically,
adapting here to the viewport,
and so, that means that we're using the viewport width unit,
so let's actually do that,
and what I did here is to use 40% of the viewport width.
And so, by now, you're seeing how important it is
to really think about responsiveness,
so right from the beginning of defining our Grid tracks
and columns, as well, so you see that,
in this real-world scenario,
we're not just using pixels here, but, instead,
we're using real units that make sense for the content
that we're putting in here, and so,
units like viewport height or viewport width
are really important units to use in a real-world scenario
like this one here.
So, in the Grid examples that you see online
or even that we did in the last section,
we always use some fixed size for the columns
and for the rows, right?
But, in here, we don't always do that,
so we use units like this, and we also simply want the rows
to adapt to the content, especially in the rows.
Not so much in the columns, but in the rows,
it's sometimes really useful to simply
let them have the height of the content, okay?
And, actually, the next one will be exactly that,
so the fourth row is this one here,
and it's similar to the features row,
in that we simply wanted to have the height
of its content, okay?
And so, let's use main content again,
and the same thing, actually, for this one here, okay?
So this one should also simply be the height
of all of these images here together,
and then, the same also for the footer,
so we're not gonna define any static value
for any of this, and so, all we have to do now is
to say min content again,
and, actually, instead of that, let's do repeat, okay?
Because you want it three times now,
and so, instead of writing it out three times,
let's simply use the repeat function, okay?
So I hope that makes sense,
and if it doesn't, then just try to imagine
that we put fixed pixel values here
in all of these rows,
so imagine this will be a hard-coded 1,000 pixels
and here as well, on tier, let's say, 800 pixels,
something like that,
and imagine what would happen if we then started
to resize our window,
so if users viewed the page from a phone or from a tablet.
We could, of course, use media queries to adapt
in that situation, but it's far easier
to think responsive right from the beginning
and size the rows and the columns in a responsive
and flexible way right from the start, okay?
So always, always think about that when you're designing
and building content with CSS Grids.
So we have the rows now, and the next thing we have
to do is to define our column tracks,
but, actually, I'm gonna leave that to the next lecture,
because that's even more complex,
and, actually, a lot more complex
than defining our row tracks, okay?
So I'm gonna leave that to the next lecture
as well as the placement of all our Grid items
in the correct position, so that it, in the end,
looks like the layout that we're gonna built.